
--- PAGE 1 ---
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GUIDELINES  
FOR  
TPR 6313 FINAL YEAR PROJECT 1 
&  
TPR 6323 FINAL YEAR PROJECT 2 
 
 
 
 
 
Faculty of Information Science & Technology 
Multimedia University 
 
 
Updated in October 2024 
(Version 4.1)


--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 i 
 
 
 
NOTICE 
 
 
PLAGIARISM IS A SERIOUS OFFENCE 
 
Copying materials from websites or any other sources for the report Final Year 
Project (FYP) contents is prohibited. 
 
You must sign the FYP report submission declaration form to confirm that your FYP 
report has been completed by your own effort without any plagiarism 
 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 ii 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
NOTICE i 
LIST OF TABLES v 
LIST OF FIGURES vi 
LIST OF APPENDICES vii 
 
CHAPTER 
1 INTRODUCTION 8 
1.1 The Final Year Project 8 
1.2 Selecting a Project Title 9 
1.3 Proposing a Project Title 11 
2 PROJECT SCHEDULE 12 
2.1 Overview 12 
2.2 TPR 6313 Final Year Project 1 12 
2.2.1 Important Events for FYP 1 13 
2.3 TPR 6323 Final Year Project 2 13 
2.3.1 Important Events for FYP 2 14 
2.4 FYP Timeline 14 
3 GRADING AND ASSESSMENT 15 
3.1 Grade Distribution 15 
3.2 Assessment 21 
4 REPORT CONTENT AND SUBMISSION 23 
4.1 Warning Notice 23 
4.2 Content of FYP Report 23 
4.2.1 Cover 23 
4.2.2 Title Page 23 
4.2.3 Copyright Page 24 
4.2.4 Declaration Page 24 
4.2.5 Acknowledgement 24 
4.2.6 Table of Contents 24 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 iii 
4.2.7 Abstract 24 
4.2.8 List of Tables 24 
4.2.9 List of Figures 25 
4.2.10 List of Abbreviations/ Acronyms/ Notation 
/Symbols (if applicable) 25 
4.2.11 List of Appendices 25 
4.2.12 Main Content (Body of the Report) 25 
4.2.13 References 27 
4.2.14 Appendices 27 
4.3 Main Content of Interim/ Final Report 27 
4.3.1 Chapter: Introduction (Interim/ Final Report) 27 
4.3.2 Chapter: Background and Literature Search 
(Interim/ Final Report) 28 
4.3.3 Chapter: Methodology (Interim/ Final Report) 28 
4.3.4 Chapter: Implementation Plan / Design (Interim 
Report only) 28 
4.3.5 Chapter: Solution (Final Report only) 28 
4.3.6 Chapter: The Implementation Process/Results 
(Final Report only) 28 
4.3.7 Chapter: Testing / Evaluation of findings (Final 
Report only) 29 
4.3.8 Chapter: Conclusion (Interim/ Final Report) 29 
4.3.9 Technical Paper (Final Report only) 29 
4.4 Submission of Interim Report (TPR 6313 FYP 1) 29 
4.5 Submission of Final Report for Evaluation (TPR6323 FYP 2)
 30 
4.6 Submission of FYP Finalised Report after Approval (TPR6323 
FYP 2 Only) 30 
4.7 Penalties and Failures 31 
4.7.1 Late Submission 31 
4.7.2 Plagiarism 31 
4.7.3 Absence for Presentation 31 
5 REPORT PREPARATION 32 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
 iv 
5.1 Report Specification 32 
5.1.1 Text 32 
5.1.2 Language 32 
5.1.3 Paper 32 
5.1.4 Printing 32 
5.1.5 Binding Type 33 
5.1.6 Soft Cover 33 
5.1.7 Hard Cover 33 
5.1.8 Spine 33 
5.1.9 Length of Report 33 
5.1.10 CD/ DVD Label and Envelope 34 
5.2 Content Layout and Text Formatting 34 
5.2.1 Page Margins 34 
5.2.2 Page Numbers 34 
5.2.3 Typesetting 34 
5.2.4 Chapter Numbering 35 
5.2.5 Spacing 35 
5.2.6 Paragraph 35 
5.2.7 Numbers 36 
5.2.8 Equation 36 
5.2.9 Table 37 
5.2.10 Figures 37 
5.2.11 Reference 38 
5.2.12 Appendices 39 
5.3 Documentation Template and Layout Example 40 
6 AWARDS, EXHIBITIONS AND CONFERENCES 41 
6.1 Awards/ Competition 41 
6.2 Exhibition/ Expo 41 
6.3 Proceedings Conference 42 
7 PITFALLS AND PROBLEMS 43 
7.1 Problems 43 
APPENDICES 45 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
 v 
LIST OF TABLES 
 
Table 3.1: Grade Distribution for FYP 1 and FYP 2 15 
Table 3.2: Evaluation Criteria for TPR6313 FYP 1 16 
Table 3.3: Evaluation Criteria for TPR6323 FYP 2 19 
 
 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 vi 
LIST OF FIGURES 
 
Figure 5.1: Example of Chapter Numbering 35 
Figure 5.2: Example of Equation in Text 36 
Figure 5.3: Example of Table in Text 37 
Figure 5.4: Example of Figure in Text 38 
Figure 5.5: Example of Reference 39 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
 vii 
LIST OF APPENDICES  
 
Appendix A: FYP Meeting Log 46 
Appendix B: Checklist for FYP Interim Submission 47 
Appendix C: Checklist for FYP Final Report Submission 48 
Appendix D: Layout for the Cover of the Interim/ Final 
Report/ Hard-Cover 49 
 Appendix E: Layout of Spine of the Final Report (Hard 
Cover only) 50 
Appendix F: Layout of Title Page of the Interim/ Final 
Report 51 
Appendix G: Layout of Copyright Page of the Interim/ Final 
Report 52 
Appendix H: Layout of Declaration Page of the Final Report 
(Soft Cover Interim/ Final Report for 
evaluation) 53 
Appendix I: Layout of Declaration Page of the FYP 2 - 
FINALISED Report 54 
Appendix J: Sample of Soft Cover Interim/ Final Report for 
evaluation 55 
Appendix K: Sample of Hard Cover Final Report (Front) 56 
Appendix L: Layout of CD/ DVD envelope 57 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
 8 
CHAPTER 1 
 
1 INTRODUCTION 
 
1.1 The Final Year Project 
 
The two-trimester Final Year Project 1 and 2 is one of the most important parts 
of the undergraduate studies.  With heavy credit hours, the FYP subject will be one of 
the most essential  and most time -consuming, taking up many hours over two -
trimesters.  Why is this activity so important that it is worth spending all this time, and 
why is it a required part of the FIST undergraduate program?  The answer is that 
information science and technology are both a theoretical and an empirical, hands-on 
discipline, and there are many skills that simply cannot be taught in the classroom.  
They can only be learned through practical experience, such as, working on a large 
project that exposes you to some of these important ideas, such as: 
 
• Interacting with users .  With most classroom projects students are given a 
problem and told to solve it. In the real world, however, problem statements 
are not given out in a finished form. Students must develop the problem 
statement through meetings and discussions with potential users of their 
software. 
 
• Developing specification and design documents. In Software Engineering 
or Software Analysis and Design subjects, students learned formal methods for 
representing specification and design documents. However,  an assignment or 
project developed in class is usually too small to demonstrate their real benefits. 
That is not the case with the final year project. It involves the development of 
a large, complex software package that requires the effective use of software 
development tools. Without these formal design and implementation methods, 
the scale of the project will quickly overwhelm the student. 
 
• Implementing project . There are two types of projects classified by the 
faculty; 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
 9 
 
▪ Application based project: 
Must include but not limited to development of new or improvement of 
existing system, framework design, implementation, coding , development 
techniques and methods, working prototype and usability studies from test 
data or survey.  
 
▪ Research based project:  
Must include but not limited to proof of concept and novelty, either new 
algorithms or enhancement of ideas supported by information technology 
related data or laboratory data or lab simulation or lab prototype, model or 
publication. 
 
• Improving writing and oral presentation skills . Two fundamentally 
important parts of the project are the student’s written documents   and the oral 
presentations. At the end of FYP 1, the student will deliver an Interim Report 
and demonstrate the prototype or research work . At the end of FYP 2 , the  
student will produce a Final Report and present his/ her work. 
 
There is much more to a final year project than simply “writing lots of code”  
or “experimenting with data” or “writing lots of text”. Instead, it is a chance to put into 
practice all the concepts that, until now, have only been studied formally.  By the end 
of the project students will have developed a set of practical skills that will serve them 
well throughout their professional career.  
 
1.2 Selecting a Project Title 
 
The first step, the student has  to pick a project title that he/she would enjoy working 
on. The projects offered may vary substantially in breadth, depth and degree of 
difficulty. The most important thing is to shortlist a set of projects that are right for 
you. Some students are better suited to well -defined and relatively safe projects that 
provide scope for demonstrating proficiency with a low risk of failure. Other students 
are better advised to tackle harder, riskier projects that require a high degree of original 
input and/or technical problem solving. If you are looking to achieve high marks in the 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
 10 
project and, particularly, if you are hoping to win one of the illustrious projects prizes, 
or achieve "Distinguished Project" status, you should choose your shortlist with 
particular care.  
 
A list of project titles will be released on the FYP website at least one month 
prior to the first of FYP 1. During this period, student s can approach the supervisors 
to obtain more detail information about the title listed. The potential supervisors will 
be happy to offer advice on the suitability of a project, given your individual 
background, strengths and ambitions. Once the supervisor agree s to supervise the 
student, the student shall request the supervisor to sign the FYP Requisition form and 
submit the form to faculty office. 
 
It is important to balance ambition and realism when making a choice.  Start 
thinking about possible topics and titles well before the course begins.  Consider ideas 
that sound interesting because of a desire to know more about a subject, a desire to 
learn how to use a particular software package, or a goal of working professionally in 
this area after graduation.  Perhaps you would like to investigate a research idea 
presented in one of your classes.  Whatever the reason, the project topic should be 
something that you choose rather than something assigned to you.  It is much more 
enjoyable to put in time on a project if it is yours rather than someone else’s.  Start by 
reading technical books, journal papers, professional articles, or interesting web pages.  
Talk with faculty and other professionals  - perhaps people you are working with for 
industrial training.  Your goal is to have a well -defined problem statement ready for 
review as early as possible. 
 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
 11 
1.3 Proposing a Project Title 
 
Student may propose a project title with the following conditions: 
 
• Company-link project. There must be a mentor from the company to supervise 
the project. The company  supervisor must agree with MMU copyright term 
(stated in the student thesis). 
• Project to be participated in competition. The project must be related to the 
theme of the competition. 
• Potential project. The project may create or bring significant improvement to 
individual, organisation or society.    
 
 Note that, student must find  a potential faculty supervisor to supervise his/ her 
proposed title. Student must obtain approval for his /her  project proposal from the 
faculty before the beginning of FYP 1. 
 
  

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
 12 
 
2 PROJECT SCHEDULE 
 
2.1 Overview 
 
The project schedule described in this chapter is only valid for long -long 
trimesters or two long trimesters, otherwise, the project will be considered as special 
case FYP that carried out in short-long or long-short trimesters. For special case FYP, 
student has to follow the FYP Timeline provided by the faculty and not the project 
schedule described in this chapter. 
 
2.2 TPR 6313 Final Year Project 1  
 
FYP 1 is concerned with developing the problem specification and design. The 
progress on these activities will be monitored through regular weekly meetings with 
your supervisor. The requirement for FYP 1 registration is student must complete 
at least 60 credits hours (excluding art & humanity subjects).  
 
By the second week of the trimester students must have a short, written 
description of the project.   Then, for the next 11 weeks, a complete and precise 
problem statement need s to be developed, followed by the formal design of an 
experimental system that solves this problem. In addition, students must also prepare 
an implementation plan that will guide their activities in FYP 2 and build a working 
prototype that demonstrates the functionality of the students  proposed research/ 
software.   
 
At the end of Week 11, students are required to produce two “deliverables.”  
The first is the Interim Report (Week 11) describing what you have done.  This 
includes literature search, methodology, interviews, market surveys, statistical 
analysis as well as the completed specifications a nd design . Following are the 
important events highlighted for FYP 1. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
 13 
2.2.1 Important Events for FYP 1 
 
• Before Week 1 
▪ Students view the list of FYP titles and information.  
▪ Students select the FYP titles and approach respective supervisor.  
▪ Students register the FYP subject in ICEMS. 
• Week 1 
▪ Supervisor assign student to project. 
▪ Students submit the FYP title requisition form to faculty office.  
▪ Student attend FYP briefing. 
• Week 1 - 11 
▪ Students carry out FYP activities e.g. literature review, planning, 
analysis and design, interim report etc. 
▪ Students meet the supervisor at least once a week. A meeting log must 
be completed by each student for each meeting. 
• Week 12 
▪ Students submit the Interim Report, and students must make sure that 
their report follows the formatting requirements (e.g. layout, font size, 
references, etc).  
▪ Students arrange the presentation time slot with supervisor. 
• Weeks 13 - 14 
▪ Project presentation and demonstration of the prototype or research 
work.  
 
2.3 TPR 6323 Final Year Project 2  
 
FYP 2 is concerned with experiment or system implementation as well as the 
research contribution of the project.  Students’ tasks are to take the specification and 
design work done during the previous trimester and construct a finished, working 
system that meets all specifications. Students will again meet weekly with their 
supervisor to describe the project activ ities and detail its progress. Students  have 11 
weeks to complete the implementation.  In Week 12, the student is required to submit 
the Final Report  with a technical report as appendix and give a presentation and 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
 14 
demonstration on Week 13 and 14 of the completed system or result to the supervisor 
and moderators. Following are the important events highlighted for FYP 2. 
 
2.3.1 Important Events for FYP 2 
 
• Week 1 
▪ Student re-register the FYP subject. 
• Week 1 - 11 
▪ Students carry out FYP activities e.g. core results/ findings of the 
project, coding, testing, implementation, final report and etc. 
▪ Students meet the supervisor at least once a week. A meeting log must 
be completed by each student for each meeting.   
• Week 12 
▪ Students submit the Final Report (for evaluation) and make sure your 
report follows the formatting requirements (e.g. layout, font size, 
references, etc).  
▪ Students arrange the presentation time slot with supervisor. 
• Week 13 - 14 
▪ Project presentation and demonstration of the prototype or research 
works.  
• Week 15 - 16 
▪ Submit the finalised Final Report. 
 
2.4 FYP Timeline 
 
The FYP Timeline shows the important activities that will be carried out in 
FYP 1 and 2. The student must be aware of the important activities highlighted in the 
timeline. The FYP Timeline is provided separately in the faculty FYP website. 
  

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
 15 
 
3 GRADING AND ASSESSMENT 
 
3.1 Grade Distribution 
 
Each student will be required to passed Final Year Project (FYP) 1 (TPR6313) 
to take FYP 2 (TPR6323). Student’s activities in FYP 1 will be evaluated as Pass/Fail 
subject and FYP 2 will be graded in GPA/ CGPA calculation. The following chart 
describes the marks and final percentage distribution for FYP 1 and 2: 
 
Table 3.1: Grade Distribution for FYP 1 and FYP 2 
TPR6313 FYP 1 TPR6323 FYP 2 
Components Marks in % Components Marks in % 
Continuous assessment 
Observation 30 Observation 30 
Presentation 10 Presentation 10 
Final Assessment 
Interim Report 20 Final Report 10 
Project Design 40 Project 
Implementation 
50 
Total Marks 100 Total Marks 100 
Type Pass/ Fail Type Graded in 
GPA/ CGPA 
 
The descriptions for each evaluation component and rubrics can be 
downloaded in the FYP website with filename: FYP evaluation criteria . The 
summary of the assessment and criteria are shown in Table 3.2 and Table 3.3. 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
 16 
Table 3.2: Evaluation Criteria for TPR6313 FYP 1 
Assessment Criteria 
Observation 
(30%) 
 
Continuous 
assessment 
Planning & Organising (Meeting Log) 
• Student surpasses the plan/schedule to complete 
the FYP without supervisor guidance and have at 
least 5 meeting logs that are thorough/detailed. 
Understanding Of Tasks/Objectives 
• Student can make good improvements on the 
tasks/objectives for the FYP without supervisor 
guidance. 
Learning Skills 
• Student’s learning ability surpasses the 
technical/non-technical requirements of FYP 
tasks without supervisor guidance. 
Analysis & Problem Solving 
• Student can troubleshoot/solve ingeniously the 
problems faced in FYP tasks without supervisor 
guidance. 
Discipline & Ethical Behaviour 
• Student surpasses the handling of 
deadlines/rules/expected decency in completing 
the FYP without supervisor guidance. 
Library Literacy Course (LLC) 
• Student attended the LLC and can implement 
well the lesson learned without supervisor 
guidance. 
 
Presentation 
(10%)   
 
Continuous 
assessment 
Knowledge and methodology on the topic 
• Displayed an excellent grasp of the research 
topic. Demonstrated excellent mastery of 
content, application and implications. Excellent 
research depth across range of resources through 
complex IT project activities. 
Critical Thinking on expected outcome, analysis and 
conclusion 
• Displays excellent project outcome and include 
extensive elaboration and critical explanation to 
the presented outcome 
 
Interim Report 
(20%) 
 
Final assessment 
Structure and organisation 
• The report is exceptionally well-organized and 
structured logically. It has a clear introduction, 
well-defined sections, and a coherent flow. 
Formatting of the report 
• The report is exceptionally well-formatted, fully 
adhering to all given formatting guidelines, and 
enhancing professionalism and readability. 
Citation and reference 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
 17 
• Citations and references are precise, reflecting 
thorough research and perfect adherence to APA 
style guidelines. 
Spelling and grammar 
• The report is free from spelling and grammar 
errors, ensuring clarity and professionalism. 
 
Project Design 
(40%) 
 
Final assessment 
Introduction 
• Exceptionally introduces the project/research 
topic with precision and insight. Provides 
comprehensive background information to 
provide context. 
Problem statement and objectives 
• The problem is clearly identified and 
convincingly justified by evidence, indicating a 
comprehensive understanding of the problem. 
Relevant and achievable objectives are precisely 
defined. 
Literature review 
• An exhaustive set of sources reviewed. All 
sources are highly relevant. Identification of 
missing gaps is not only clear and well-
supported but also includes an explanation of the 
significance of these gaps for the 
research/project. 
Methodology and planning 
• Exceptionally clear and relevant research/project 
directions that are closely aligned with the 
identified gaps in the literature review. The 
chosen methodology is not only clearly 
explained and justified but also demonstrates a 
deep understanding of potential challenges and 
limitations. Planning is well-structured, with 
precise milestones and a comprehensive Gantt 
chart that accounts for potential contingencies. 
Software or research design 
• Presents an outstanding software or research 
design that is highly detailed and 
comprehensive. The design consists of all 
necessary design components. Demonstrates 
exceptional consideration for important design 
choices. 
Preliminary result/ critical discussion/ prototype 
• Result/ discussion/ prototype is thoroughly and 
critically presented to ICT complex problems, 
which covers all the component parts or sub-
problems. 
Conclusion and future work 
• Conclusion is thoroughly and critically presented 
to objective and well supported by 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
 18 
results/findings with significant improvements 
for future works. 
Overall technical quality of the project 
• Technical details are thoroughly and critically 
presented and fully supported by details and/or 
clarifying information which enhances 
understanding. Student is able to solve all 
technical problems independently 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
 19 
Table 3.3: Evaluation Criteria for TPR6323 FYP 2 
Assessment Criteria 
Observation 
(30%) 
 
Continuous 
assessment 
Planning & Organising (Meeting Log) 
• Student surpasses the plan/schedule to complete 
the FYP without supervisor guidance and have 
at least 6 meeting logs that are 
thorough/detailed. 
Technical Skills 
• Student surpasses the technical skills required to 
complete FYP tasks without supervisor 
guidance. 
Motivation, Responsiveness & Flexibility 
• Student demonstrates exceptional continuous 
effort and adapts quickly to changes in FYP 
tasks without supervisor guidance. 
Analysis & Problem Solving 
• Student can troubleshoot/solve ingeniously the 
problems faced in FYP tasks without supervisor 
guidance. 
Discipline & Ethical Behaviour 
• Student surpasses the handling of 
deadlines/rules/expected decency in completing 
the FYP without supervisor guidance. 
Innovation & Entrepreneurship 
• Student demonstrates excellent ingenuity in FYP 
tasks and very strong entrepreneurship-oriented 
outcome without supervisor guidance. 
Presentation 
(10%)   
 
Continuous 
assessment 
Knowledge and methodology on the topic 
• Displayed an excellent grasp of the research 
topic. Demonstrated excellent mastery of 
content, application and implications. Excellent 
research depth across range of resources through 
complex IT project activities. 
Prototype demonstration/ research report presentation 
• Prototype demonstration or research report 
presentation is outstanding, showcasing a highly 
innovative and well-executed project with 
flawless communication and engagement. 
Critical Thinking on outcome, analysis, results and 
conclusion 
• Displays excellent project outcome and include 
extensive elaboration and critical explanation to 
the presented outcome 
Final Report 
(10%) 
 
Final assessment 
Structure and organisation 
• The report is exceptionally well-organized and 
structured logically. It has a clear introduction, 
well-defined sections, and a coherent flow. 
Formatting of the report 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
 20 
• The report is exceptionally well-formatted, fully 
adhering to all given formatting guidelines, and 
enhancing professionalism and readability. 
Citation and reference 
• Citations and references are precise, reflecting 
thorough research and perfect adherence to APA 
style guidelines. 
Spelling and grammar 
• The report is free from spelling and grammar 
errors, ensuring clarity and professionalism. 
Project 
Implementation 
(50%) 
 
Final assessment 
Improvement made after FYP 1 (abstract, introduction, 
problem statement, objectives, literature, methodology and 
planning, software/ framework design and prototype (if 
any)) 
• Excellent improvement has been made on the 
report with additional literature added with 
critically evaluates relevant sources and improve 
on methodology content 
Objectives met 
• All objectives have been not only met but 
surpassed with outstanding results. Exceptional 
creativity, innovation, and/or resourcefulness 
were demonstrated in achieving objectives. The 
achievement of objectives has had a significant 
and positive impact on the overall project or 
task. 
Project implementation/ experimental setup 
• The project implementation or experimental 
setup is executed flawlessly with meticulous 
attention to detail. All components are 
exceptionally well-organized, demonstrating an 
exceptional level of precision and planning. 
Advanced techniques, cutting-edge technology, 
or innovative methods are employed, resulting in 
outstanding results. 
Project testing and prototype or research methods/ 
techniques/ algorithm/ experimental evaluation and result 
and critical discussion 
• The project testing, methods, techniques, or 
algorithm evaluation is conducted flawlessly 
with an exceptional level of rigor and precision. 
The evaluation design is highly sophisticated 
and comprehensive, demonstrating advanced 
knowledge and creativity. Results are 
exceptional, showcasing groundbreaking 
insights or achievements in the field. 
Conclusion and future work 
• Conclusion is thoroughly and critically 
presented to objective and well supported by 

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
 21 
results/findings with significant improvements 
for future works. 
Overall technical quality  
• Technical details are thoroughly and critically 
presented and fully supported by details and/or 
clarifying information which enhances 
understanding. Student can solve all technical 
problems independently 
Completeness of the application-based or research-based 
project 
• The project, whether application-based or 
research-based, is exceptionally complete, fully 
addressing all aspects, objectives, and 
requirements with outstanding quality. 
Technical paper (Discuss with your respective supervisor 
for format details and requirement) 
• Content is highly organized, illustrating the 
overall argument with finer details. Show strong 
links of the paragraphs to the argument and 
future directions. Includes strong observation 
relevant to argument. 
 
3.2 Assessment 
 
The supervisor and moderator/panel will assess the student’s performance for 
each criterion in 6 levels (0-5) as described below: 
 
• 5  Excellent: The student’s performance is well beyond expectation  
• 4  Very Good: The student’s performance is above expectation at his/her  
• 3  Adequate: The student’s performance is acceptable and expected at his/her level 
• 2  Inadequate: The student’s performance is below expectation 
• 1  Poor: The student’s performance is extremely below expectations.  
• 0  Very Poor: No evidence of work.  
 
In order to be graded as excellent for an application-based project, the student 
will have to develop an impressive/ novel application with fully functional components, 
various unique features, excellent coding style and file structures , adopt proper 
software development techniques and methods, accompanied with excellent 
documentation and most importantly the project has to be demonstrable to the public 
and suitable to for participation in competition s and exhibition s. Students who 

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
 22 
obtained a distinction grade for his/ her project must participate in an exhibition or 
competition if requested by the supervisor or faculty.  
OR 
For an excellent research based project, the student has to show their quality of 
research work at the highest level of undergraduate studies by providing an in-depth 
literature review, developed novel algorithms , new breakthrough, enhancement of 
ideas or framework that is supported by excellent experimental results using 
benchmark  and standard database, strong proof of concept through surveys, statistics 
or laboratory prototype and has the potential to generate at least one local/ international 
conference/ journal publication. 
AND 
 The FYP supervisors are required to run the FYP report through the plagiarism 
checking software approved by the University (Turnitin). The similarity index for each 
chapter shall not exceed 1 0%.  Should the similarity index be more than 1 0%, the 
supervisors are required to provide the justifications.  
 
 The similarity index checking must be performed with below requirement: 
 
  
 All A+/A/A- projects must fulfil the requirement of not more than 1 0% 
Similarity Index by chapter.  
 
 FYP report with Similarity Index more than 1 0% by chapter, should only 
entitle the highest, grade B+. FYP Committee decision is FINAL. 
 
  


--- PAGE 24 ---
 
 23 
 
4 REPORT CONTENT AND SUBMISSION 
 
4.1 Warning Notice 
 
TAKE NOTICE that the unauthorized copying, reproducing, sharing and /  or 
downloading of any copyrighted material or an attempt to do so whether by use of the 
University’s facilities or outside networks / facilities whether in hard copy or soft copy 
format, shall constitute an infringement under the Copyright Act 1987 and sh all be a 
strict liability offence. 
 
4.2 Content of FYP Report 
 
This section describes the general content structure of the undergraduate FYP 
report. It covers information on the arrangement of the report, content and chapters. 
The FYP report will be rejected if the report is not presented in the form required in 
this guide. 
 
4.2.1 Cover 
  
The cover of the report must contain (in order) the title of the FYP, student’s 
full name, session, name of faculty, Multimedia University and the month and year of 
submission. For the hard cover of the Final Report, all letters must be printed in 
boldface (gold) capital letters. The minimum size for the letter is 5mm in height. Refer 
to example in Appendix A. The hard copy cover must be in dark blue as shown in 
Appendix K. 
 
4.2.2 Title Page  
 
The cover of the report must contain  (in order) title of the FYP, student’s full 
name, session, statement of fulfilment, name  of faculty, Multimedia University and 
the month and year of submission date. Refer Appendix F. 

--- PAGE 25 ---
 
 24 
4.2.3 Copyright Page  
 
Student MUST follow and complete the copyright page according to the 
content and format shown in . 
 
4.2.4 Declaration Page  
 
Students MUST declare with signatures stating the report has been done by 
them and no plagiarism has been included. Please refer to Appendix H  for blue cover 
submission, and Appendix H1 for finalised submission. 
 
4.2.5 Acknowledgement 
 
Student may acknowledge  the assistance of  various individuals or 
organisations in successful completion of the FYP. The content of this section shall 
not exceed one page. 
 
4.2.6 Table of Contents 
 
This page should contain a list of chapters, sub-titles and referred page number 
of the report. 
 
4.2.7 Abstract 
 
In one or two pages, certainly not more than two, summarize the main features 
of the project, what problem it is solving and how the student proposes to solve it. This 
brief overview should give a snapshot of the overall structure of the FYP. 
 
4.2.8 List of Tables 
 
This page must list all the tables described in the project report together with 
the table numbers, labels and page numbers. 
 

--- PAGE 26 ---
 
 25 
4.2.9 List of Figures 
 
This page must list all the figures described in the project report together with 
the figure numbers, labels and page numbers. 
 
4.2.10 List of Abbreviations/ Acronyms/ Notation /Symbols (if applicable) 
 
All abbreviations, acronyms, notation and symbols described  in the project 
report should be listed on this page according to alphabetical order, together with their 
definitions or names. 
 
4.2.11 List of Appendices 
 
This page must list all the appendices in the project report together with the 
appendix number, labels and page numbers. 
 
4.2.12 Main Content (Body of the Report) 
 
The main content of the report should be divided into  appropriate chapters. 
Each chapter must begin on a new page. The title of each ch apter must be provided 
and related to the main content. A chapter must contain sections with appropriate sub-
titles and numbers. The body of the report must be written in paragraphs that describe 
information relevant to the title or sub -title. There must be continu ity flow between 
two paragraphs and long paragraphs should be avoided.  
 
Student should adopt the appropriate body of the Interim Report in FYP 1 and 
body of the Final Report in FYP 2. Following are suggested main content s for each 
report. 

--- PAGE 27 ---
 
 26 
• Suggested Contents of Interim Report (FYP 1) 
o Chapter 1: Introduction – objectives, scopes 
o Chapter 2: Literature Review 
o Chapter 3: *Methodology and planning 
o Chapter 4: *Software / research design 
o Chapter 5: *Preliminary result/ critical discussion/ prototype 
o Chapter 6: Conclusion 
 
• Suggested Contents of Final Report (FYP 2) 
o Chapter 1: Introduction – objectives, scopes 
o Chapter 2: Literature Review 
o Chapter 3: *Methodology 
o Chapter 4: *The Solution (Complete expansion) 
o Chapter 5: *The Implementation Process/Results 
o Chapter 6: *Testing / Evaluation of findings 
o Chapter 7: Conclusion  
 
 Note that, the suggested contents  with (*)  above can be modified. Student 
MUST consult the supervisor for suitable chapter title and content of the report. 
 
There should be continuity link between the Interim Report and the Final 
Report. The content described in Interim Report such as objectives, methodology, plan 
and design must be met, carried out and reported in Final Report . Otherwise, the 
student has to report the changes of plan  and provide appropriate support and 
justification in the Final Report.  The detail description for each chapter is described 
in Section 4.3. 
 
In a formal report, the use of first-person reference such as “I”, “us” , “me”, 
“myself” and etc.  in the main content should be avoided. In situation where self -
reference is required, the self- reference could be made as “this study”, “this project”, 
“this research” or “the author”. Student must adopt an appropriate English writing  
level. Student must pay attention to correct spelling, grammar, punctuation, sentence 
structure and continuity.  
 

--- PAGE 28 ---
 
 27 
4.2.13 References 
 
All references of papers, journals, websites, tools, material, books, software 
and reference materials that the student has referred to within the report must be listed 
alphabetically and chronologically in this section following American Psychological 
Association (APA) style. Student must cite the references at the appropriate places in 
the content of the report  where required. Students are encourage to use Mendeley 
(https://www.mendeley.com/) or Zotero ( https://www.zotero.org/) for organising 
and citing the reference materials. 
 
4.2.14 Appendices 
 
Appendices are a dditional materials to the body of the report . The items in 
appendices include charts, graphics, display, essential program codes, screen shots, 
table, diagram and other items that may be too lengthy and inconvenient to be included 
in the body of the report. For example, the survey questionnaires and data sheets may 
be included as appendices. All the appendices must be listed in the List of Appendices 
page. 
 
4.3 Main Content of Interim/ Final Report 
 
Brief information about the body of the report is described in section 4.2.12. 
The following sections provide detail descriptions of the main content of Interim/ Final 
Report.  
 
4.3.1 Chapter: Introduction (Interim/ Final Report) 
 
How did the problem originally present itself to you in the first place, and how 
did it evolve over the course of the project. Give a detailed summary of the problem 
as well as a review of the literature or the market survey.  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 29 ---
 
 28 
4.3.2 Chapter: Background and Literature Search (Interim/ Final Report) 
 
Describe what you have discovered in your literature review. Does this 
problem exist anywhere else? Who is working on it? How have others solved it? Give 
references to some of the main articles/books/Web pages discussing this problem. 
 
4.3.3 Chapter: Methodology (Interim/ Final Report) 
 
Describe how the project work will be implemented. What methodology will 
be used?  What tools and technique(s) will be employed? Describe the tools and 
techniques in detail and justify why you choose it? For all the tools and techniques 
used, give proper citation and references. 
 
4.3.4 Chapter: Implementation Plan / Design (Interim Report only) 
 
Outline in detail your approach to solving the problem using system 
development diagrams, flowcharts and schematic diagrams. Lay out the project 
implementation plan for the next semester. Discuss the project’s target and milestone 
dates. If you will be implementing your project in discrete stages, describe them and 
discuss how far you think you will be able to get. 
 
4.3.5 Chapter: Solution (Final Report only) 
 
Describe the design and solution in detail. Student may include the appendices 
for essential computer code s, data sheet  or other technical materials, but some 
summary or overview diagrams of the solution should be described in text and placed 
in the body of the report. This will help the reader get a sense for the overall structure 
of the solution. 
 
4.3.6 Chapter: The Implementation Process/Results (Final Report only) 
 
Describe the process you went through to complete the project and compare 
what actually happened with the goals you were trying to achieve. Highlight any major 

--- PAGE 30 ---
 
 29 
variations from your original plans. Discuss the behaviour of the finished program, 
and show some of its functionality. 
 
4.3.7 Chapter: Testing / Evaluation of findings (Final Report only) 
 
For the implemented systems and software, tests should be conducted, and their 
results should also clearly be stated. 
 
4.3.8 Chapter: Conclusion (Interim/ Final Report) 
 
What has been accomplished for each research objective (Students should 
clearly state the conclusion for each project objective) what are the major things that 
you learned from this project? What work still needs to be done on the system and how 
can it be improved and/or enhanced? Do you have any future plans for this software 
package? 
 
4.3.9 Technical Paper (Final Report only) 
 
Student must consult the respective supervisor for suitable technical paper and 
format for the project. For research projects, the technical paper can be a conference 
or a journal paper. For application projects, the technical paper can be the user manual, 
API manual, technical analysis report etc.  
 
4.4  Submission of Interim Report (TPR 6313 FYP 1) 
 
Student must submit the following items on Week 12 in FYP 1 to the FYP 
Supervisor for evaluation. 
 
1. SOFTCOPY (1 copy in PDF format & 1 copy in word format)  
Interim Reports (Refer to FYP guideline (get from IPMS))). 
2. Email/share to your supervisor: ZIP/Online Drive Folder  that 
contains the softcopy of the project report, documents, codes, 
installation files, required software, references, etc. However, the 
supervisor can request student to print the report if needed. 

--- PAGE 31 ---
 
 30 
3. At least SIX (6) FYP Meeting Log sheets, including ONE from 
Library Literacy Course Attendance (from the library) (Refer to 
Appendix A in FYP guideline) attached as an appendix. The FYP 
Meeting Log sheets must be signed and stamped by the supervisor. 
4. The checklist for FYP interim report submission ( Appendix B). 
 
4.5 Submission of Final Report for Evaluation (TPR6323 FYP 2) 
 
Student has to submit the following items on Week 12 in FYP 2  to the FYP 
Supervisor for evaluation. 
 
1. SOFTCOPY (1 copy in PDF format & 1 copy in word format) 
Final Reports (Refer to FYP guideline)). 
2. Email/share to your supervisor: ZIP/Online Drive Folder that 
contains the softcopy of the project report, documents, codes, 
installation files, required software, references, meeting logs, FYP 
report submission checklist, etc. However, the supervisor can request 
student to print the report if needed. 
3. At least SIX (6) FYP Meeting Log sheets (Refer to Appendix A in 
FYP guideline) are attached as an appendix. The FYP Meeting Log 
sheets must be signed and stamped by the supervisor.  
4. The checklist for FYP final report submission (Appendix C). 
 
4.6 Submission of FYP Finalised Report after Approval ( TPR6323 FYP 2 
Only) 
 
After the FYP 2 p resentation, student is  required to  consult and seek  for 
approval from supervisor to submit the following items within 2 weeks to the faculty 
via online form or drive. 
 
• SOFTCOPY (1 copy in PDF format & 1 copy in word format) FYP 
Finalised Report (Refer to FYP guideline)). However, the supervisor/ 
faculty can request student to print the report if needed. 

--- PAGE 32 ---
 
 31 
• FYP title requisition form (signed by both student and the supervisor 
before FYP 1 begins). 
• The checklist for FYP final report submission (Appendix C in FYP 
guideline).  
• The signed & Stamped (By Supervisor & Panel) FYP Finalised 
Report Submission Form. 
• On the cover of the Final Report submission, the month of submission 
shall follow accordingly.   
• Failure to submit the SOFTCOPY FYP Finalised Report on time will 
result in the TPR6326 FINAL YEAR PROJECT 2 mark being 
incomplete with grade status "I".    
 
4.7 Penalties and Failures 
 
4.7.1 Late Submission 
 
FIVE mark (5%) will be automatically deducted from the student project for 
late submission (each day) of interim/ final/ finalised report. Therefore, students have 
to ensure that they submit their FYP report on time.  Student who does not submit the 
report for more than 5 days (including non -working days) after the submission due 
date may result in automatic failures. 
 
4.7.2 Plagiarism 
 
Student who is caught to have plagiarized will be STRICTLY penalized and 
may result in automatic failures. 
 
4.7.3 Absence for Presentation  
 
Student who does not present for presentation (without valid reason) may result 
in automatic failures. 
 
 

--- PAGE 33 ---
 
 32 
CHAPTER 5 
5 REPORT PREPARATION 
 
5.1 Report Specification 
 
The following describes the report specification. The printing of the hardcopy 
of the soft/hard cover report (Section 5.1.3 to 5.1.10 and the relevant appendices) only 
applicable if requested by the supervisor or the faculty. 
 
5.1.1 Text 
 
Use computer type written using word processor software. 
 
5.1.2 Language 
 
Use British (United Kingdom) English . Avoid the use of such as “I”, “us”, 
“me”, “myself” and etc. in the main content of the report, except the conclusion chapter. 
Use “this study”, “this project”, “this research” or “the author” in situation where self-
reference is required. Student must adopt appropriate English writing level. Student 
must pay attention to use correct spelling, grammar, punctuation, sentence structure, 
continuity and etc. 
 
5.1.3 Paper 
 
Use only high-quality A4 80-gram paper, dimensions 210 mm x 297 mm. This 
paper should be white in colour, acid free and “non-erasable”. 
 
5.1.4 Printing  
 
Print using high-quality laser or ink -jet printer. Use colour printing mode for 
figures, diagrams etc. if applicable. Text and figure s must be legible and clear.  All 
typing, print, illustrations, etc. should be on one side of the paper only. 
 

--- PAGE 34 ---
 
 33 
5.1.5 Binding Type 
 
• Comb bind (Soft cover) 
o Interim Report 
o Final Report for evaluation  
• Permanent bind (Hard cover) 
o Final Report after approval 
 
5.1.6 Soft Cover 
 
Refer to  Appendix D for items required on cover and refer to Appendix J for 
sample. The soft cover can be obtained from faculty office. 
 
5.1.7 Hard Cover 
 
Refer to Appendix D for items required on cover  and refer Appendix K for 
sample. All letters must be printed in boldface (gold) capital letter. The minimum size 
for the letter is 5mm in height. 
 
5.1.8 Spine 
 
Refer to  Appendix E  for items required on spine. All letters must be printed 
in boldface (gold) capital letter s. The minimum size for the letter is 5  mm in height. 
Direction of lettering must run from the top of spine. 
 
5.1.9 Length of Report 
 
The minimum number of words for Interim Report is FIVE thousand (5000) 
words and Final Report is TEN thousand (10000) words. Note that, the words count is 
applicable for main content (body) of the report only. 
 

--- PAGE 35 ---
 
 34 
5.1.10 CD/ DVD Label and Envelope 
 
The CD/ DVD envelope should be properly made and attached to the last page 
of the report. Refer to Appendix K. 
 
5.2 Content Layout and Text Formatting 
 
The following describes the content layout and text formatting of the report. 
 
5.2.1 Page Margins 
 
 The minimum-sized page margins are as follows: 
• Left  40 mm 
• Right  25 mm 
• Top  25 mm 
• Bottom  25 mm 
 
5.2.2 Page Numbers 
 
Page numbers should be centred and placed in the footer 15 mm from the edge 
of the bottom of the page. Use typeface Times New Roman and the font size is 12 pt. 
Every page except the title page must be numbered. Title page  is “ I” but is not 
numbered. Preliminary pages are to be numbered in upper case Roman numerals (I, II, 
III, IV and etc). The text pages are to be numbered in Arabic numerals (1, 2, 3 and etc.) 
and all pages must be numbered consecutively and continuously, irrespective of 
volumes. 
 
5.2.3 Typesetting 
 
• Typeface: Times New Roman for all text in report 
• Text: Regular, font size 12 pt 
• Chapter Title: Uppercase, bold, centred, font size 14 pt 
• Sub-title (all levels): Title Case, bold, align left, font size 12 pt 

--- PAGE 36 ---
 
 35 
5.2.4 Chapter Numbering 
 
Chapters and sections must be numbered and titled. Each sub -title must be 
follow by at least one paragraph that describes the section and content.  Note that 
student should avoid sections more than level four. 
 
Example: 
 CHAPTER 3 
 
 MAIN TITLE 
 
3.1 Sub-title (2nd Level) 
 This section describes… 
3.1.1 Sub-sub-title (3rd Level) 
 The following describes… 
3.1.1.1 Sub-sub-sub-title (4th Level) 
 The detail of … 
 
Figure 5.1: Example of Chapter Numbering 
 
5.2.5 Spacing 
 
Line spacing is one and a half (1.5) spacing. Use double (2.0) lines spacing for 
the next paragraph. 
 
5.2.6 Paragraph 
 
The last paragraph of any page should comprise at least two lines of text. Any 
heading appearing near the bottom of a page should be followed by at least two lines 
of text. If this is not possible, the heading and the line should be continued in the next 
page. If the last paragraph of a page has to be continued on the next page, there must 
be at least two lines of the text appearing on the next page.  Each paragraph should be 
indented one tab (1.27 cm or 0.5 inch) from the left margin.  General alignment for  
texts in paragraph should be “Justified”. 

--- PAGE 37 ---
 
 36 
5.2.7 Numbers 
 
Avoid beginning a sentence with a number or symbol. Number s have to be 
used with appropriate unit s (e.g. 30%, 55 ml, 3 cm, 5 km, 10 kg, RM 30,000, 35 °C 
and etc.). Otherwise, the number has to be spelled out in words (e.g. three sections, 
five categories, three tools, thirty lines etc.). Use appropriate mathematic operators (e.g. 
multiplication should be “×” and not “x”)   
 
5.2.8 Equation  
 
 Equations represented in symbols or variables must be italic (e.g. k, M, y, P,, 
 etc.) and centred. The equation must be referred to by number in brackets with 
respect to the chapter. The symbols or variables in equations must be described clearly 
in text. There should be one and a half (1.5) lines spacing before and after the equation. 
 
Example: 
The following is the fourth equation appears in Chapter 5: 
Albert Einstein proposed mass–energy equivalence equation as follows: 
 
 E = mc2 (5.4) 
 
where E is energy, m is mass, and c is the speed of light in a vacuum. 
…. 
they can be computed using the cosine law defined as, 
2 2 2
arccos 2
a b c
ab +−=
 (5.5) 
where a and b denote the two sides next to the angle α, and c is the side opposite to 
α. 
 
Figure 5.2: Example of Equation in Text 
 

--- PAGE 38 ---
 
 37 
5.2.9 Table  
 
 Tables in text must be centred, numbered with respect to the chapter and 
captioned. The caption should be positioned at the top-center of the table. The caption 
should be bold and title case and single spacing. A table should be place d after it has 
been referred to for the first time in the text. There should be one and a half (1.5) lines 
spacing before and after the table. Tables which are presented in landscape format 
should be bound with the top of the table to the spine.  
 
Example: 
The following is the third table described in text of Chapter 3: 
… Table 3.3 show the performance comparison of the … 
 
 Table 3.3: Biometrics Performance Comparison. 
Biometrics Accuracy (%) 
Hand Geometry 76.5% 
Finger Print 95.2% 
   
Figure 5.3: Example of Table in Text 
 
5.2.10 Figures  
 
 Items that can be represented as figures include but are not limited to diagrams, 
pictures, charts, programming codes, pseudo codes, graphs etc. All figures in text must 
be centred, numbered to respect with the chapter and captioned. The caption should be 
positioned at the bottom-center of the figure and single spacing. The caption should be 
bold and title case. A figure should be placed after it has been referred to the first time 
in the text. There should be one and a half (1.5) lines spacing before and after the figure. 
Figures which are presented in landscape format should be bound with the top of the 
table to the spine. Note that, all figures in the content must be referred or explained or 
described in content/ text. Otherwise the figures should be placed in appendix.  
  

--- PAGE 39 ---
 
 38 
Example: 
The following is the fifth figure described in text of Chapter 7: 
Figure 7.5 illustrates the sample image acquired by using the online and offline 
methods respectively. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 7.5: Palm Print Image Acquired using (a) Offline System, and (b) 
Online System. 
Figure 5.4: Example of Figure in Text 
 
5.2.11 Reference 
 
 Any material taken from another source must be identified, and a brief 
reference to its source included in the text.  Thus, every reference quoted or cited in 
the thesis must be included in the list of references accordingly  using American 
Psychological Association (APA) style. References should be ordered alphabetically  
and followed by chronological order for same author . Typeface to be used is Times 
New Roman and the font size is 10  pt with one and a half (1.5) lines spacing. Use 
double (2.0) lines spacing between entries. The second line of a reference must be 
indented 12.7 mm. 
 
Example: 
Citation in text: 
According to Adams and Zukofsky (1999a), they are adopting… The survey also 
found that … (Adams and Zukofsky, 1999b). 
... 
… 
Reference: 
… 


--- PAGE 40 ---
 
 39 
Adams, J.A. & Zukofsky, S.P. (1999a). I saved my patient with the APA. 
Adams, J.A. & Zukofsky, S.P. (1999b). New Style with APA. 
American Journal of Public Health , 72, 801 -843. Retrieved August 13, 2001,from Health and 
Wellness Resource Center database.52 
Burgess, Q. (1998). Mastering the APA in 600 easy lessons (Rev. ed.).  
Byrd, P. (1999, July/August). Bed -side manner with the APA. Hospital Etiquette , 53. Retrieved 
August 19, 2001, from Academic Search Premier database. 
Kinko, P., McConnell, C., Stone, S., Forehand, S., Blondeau, K., Leybold, J. (2001). We fought the 
APA and the APA won. The Journal of the American Medical Association, 276, 1279-
1285. 
… 
Figure 5.5: Example of Reference 
 
Note that , student shall to refer the “ CitationInReferenceList.doc” and 
“CitationStyleForReferenceInText.doc” document for more information and 
examples about references and citations. The two documents can be downloaded from 
the FIST-FYP website (http://fist2.mmu.edu.my/?page=32). 
 
5.2.12 Appendices 
 
The pages should be numbered continuously with the rest of the text. For 
computer type written appendices, the t ypeface to be used is Times New Roman and 
the font size is 10 pt and one and a half (1.5) lines spacing. 
 

--- PAGE 41 ---
 
 40 
5.3 Documentation Template and Layout Example  
 
Students are  encouraged to follow  the “FypDocumentationTemplate.doc” 
provided in the FIST -FYP website.  Students may also refer  to the some layout 
examples in the appendices listed below: 
 
• Appendix D: Layout for the Cover of the Interim/ Final Report/ Finalised FYP 
2 Report/ Hardcover Report 
• Appendix E: Layout of Spine of the Final Report  Hardcover Report (if 
requested) 
• Appendix F: Layout of Title Page of the Interim/ Final Report/ Finalised FYP 
2 Report 
• Appendix G: Layout of Copyright page of the Interim/ Final Report/ Finalised 
FYP 2 Report 
• Appendix H: Layout of Declaration page of the Interim/ Final Report/ Finalised 
FYP 2 Report 
  

--- PAGE 42 ---
 
 41 
 
6 AWARDS, EXHIBITIONS AND CONFERENCES 
 
6.1 Awards/ Competition 
 
There are many awards offered as a motivation for your FYP effort. This also 
really looks good in your resume and it will help increasing the chance of getting a 
good job, not to mention that some of the awards are worth quite a sum of money as 
well. 
 
 The faculty promotes participation in competitions co-organized by the faculty 
and industrial partners or other external bodies. Some of the awards/ competitions that 
may be available for student to participate in are as follows: 
 
• IBM Best IT Project Award: For best FYP that utilizes IBM technologies and 
tools. 
• Shell Technology Innovation Award : Five best FIST FYP projects shall be 
selected for competition with FYP projects from each faculty. 
• MSC Asia Pacific ICT Award (APICTA): FYP projects can be nominated 
by the students   themselves  for  participation  in  the  Best  of  Tertiary  Student  
Project (Software/Hardware or  Creative Multimedia) Category, the winner 
shall represent Malaysia for Asia-Pacific Finals. Visit www.mscapicta.com.my  
for details. 
• Microsoft Imagine Cup Award : Imagine Cup is your chance to innovate, 
show the world what you've got, and win some serious prizes. Visit 
www.imagincup.com/ for details. 
 
6.2 Exhibition/ Expo 
 
A student who develops an impressive and demonstrable project or prototype may 
be requested by supervisor, faculty or university to participate in local or international 
exhibition/ expo to introduce their products to people. This will provide exposure for 
the student who would like to be an entrepreneur and meet potential investors or 

--- PAGE 43 ---
 
 42 
customers who may buy or invest into their project. Some exhibition s may provide 
certificates, medals and awards and the projects may be evaluated by judges from 
industry. The duration of the exhibition/ expo is about 1 to 3 days.  Some of the 
exhibitions/ expos which may be available for student to participate are as follow: 
 
• Invention Innovative & Technology Exhibition (ITEX) : The leading 
exhibition in Asia that showcases new inventions, technologies and products. 
Judging will be conducted and medals and certificates will be awarded to 
winners. Visit www.itex.com.my for more details. 
• Malaysia Technology Expo  (MTE): An exhibition that showcase s 
technologies and products.  Judging will be conducted and medals and 
certificates will be awarded to winners. Visit www.mte.org.my for more details. 
• MMU Open Projects Exhibition : Display and present projects to the public 
and visitors. Certificates will be provided to students. 
 
6.3 Proceedings Conference  
 
Students who have good research work are encourage d to submit research 
papers to a well -known (listed in ISI -indexed or MMU conference list ) local/ 
international conference. The student should discuss this with the supervisor to obtain 
advice and recommendation before submitting his/ her research paper to any  
conference. The supervisor may guide and provide some knowledge related to research 
publication to the student. Student is advised to do an in-depth literature review to 
grasp the techniques on how to write a research paper. There are plenty of sources to 
download research papers for readings and references, some of the well-known online 
research libraries are IEEExplore, ACM, Science Direct etc.  
 
  

--- PAGE 44 ---
 
 43 
 
7 PITFALLS AND PROBLEMS 
 
7.1 Problems 
 
The final year project will be a demanding but exciting learning experience. 
However, it is not without problems which, if not identified and addressed, could 
seriously affect the final result and ultimately reduce your grade. In this section we 
mention some of these problems and how to avoid them. 
 
• The “Overachiever” Problem. A common problem is selecting a topic that is 
far too ambitious for the allotted time. Remember that you have only 11 weeks 
to finish the coding, debugging, experimenting, collecting data and testing. Be 
careful not to select a topic that is unrealistica lly large. This can lead to 
frustration as well as errors caused by “cutting corners” and hurrying through 
the implementation. Discuss with your advisor the scale of what you are 
planning. If he or she thinks it may be too large, cons ider implementing the 
project in stages, each complete in itself. When FYP 1 is working move on to 
FYP 2. If you do not finish FYP 2, however, you still will have a functioning 
system. 
 
• The “Do It Tomorrow” Problem . 11 weeks sounds like a long time, but it 
goes by quickly. You need an implementation schedule that allocates 
reasonable amounts of work throughout the entire semester. Then you must 
stick to that schedule. Don’t be tempted to postpone work on the project  
because Week 11 seems so far off. All that happens is that during the final few 
weeks you rush madly to get something working, and software implemented in 
a rush rarely works correctly! 
 
• The “Poop Out At the End” Problem . You have worked hard for 11 weeks 
to complete this project. You have spent many late nights and chased down 
hundreds of bugs, but it is now working, so are you done? Absolutely not! The 
project grade is not based only on the programs you develop but also  on your 

--- PAGE 45 ---
 
 44 
written reports and oral presentations. Don’t produce a poorly written paper or 
give a poorly organized presentation. That will negate much of your good work. 
Put in the time needed to prepare both a well written, high -quality final report 
and a well-organized, polished presentation. Good work on these last steps will 
ensure that you receive a grade that fairly represents the work you have done. 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 46 ---
 
 45 
APPENDICES 
 
Refer to next page. 
  

--- PAGE 47 ---
 
 46 
Appendix A: FYP Meeting Log 
 
Faculty of Information Science and Technology (FIST) 
Final Year Project Meeting Log 
(To be filled in by Student) 
MEETING DATE: MEETING NO.: 
PROJECT ID:  
PROJECT TITLE : 
SESSION : SUPERVISOR : 
STUDENT ID & Name:         CO- SUPERVISOR : 
 
1. WORK DONE [Please write the details of the work done after the last meeting.] 
 
 
 
2. WORK TO BE DONE  
 
 
 
3. PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED 
 
4. COMMENTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTES:  
1. Items 1 – 3 are to be completed by the students before coming for the meeting. Item 4 is to be 
completed by the supervisor.  
2. For FYP 1, total six log sheets are to be submitted (every other week*).  
3. For FYP 2, total six log sheets are to be submitted (every other week**). 
4. Log sheets are compulsory assessment criteria for FYP. Student who fails to meet the requirements of 
log sheets will not be allowed to submit FYP report. 
 
*: week 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11 or 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 11 of the first trimester (week 12: report submission, weeks 
13 & 14: presentation) 
**: week 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11 or 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 11 of the second trimester (week 12: report submission,      
weeks 13 & 14: presentation)    
 
Supervisor’s Signature & 
Stamp 
 Co-Supervisor’s Signature 
& Stamp (if any) 
 Student’s Signature 

--- PAGE 48 ---
 
 47 
 Appendix B: Checklist for FYP Interim Submission  
 
Faculty of Information Science and Technology (FIST) 
Checklist for Interim Report Submission 
(To be filled in by Student) 
STUDENT’S DETAILS 
Project Code  FIST 
Name  
ID No  
Title of Thesis  
Supervisor Name  
 
REPORT ARRANGEMENT  √ Comments (if any differences) 
1. Cover of The Interim Report   
2. Title Page of the Interim Report   
3 Copyright page of I Interim Report   
4. Declaration Page of Interim report   
5. Acknowledgement   
6. Table of Contents   
7. Abstract   
8. List of Tables   
9. List of Figures   
10. List of Symbols   
11. List of Appendices   
12. Chapter 1: Introduction – objectives,  
      scope     
13. Chapter 2: Literature Review   
14. Chapter 3: Title:   
15. Chapter 4: Title:   
16. Chapter 5: Title:   
17. References – APA style   
18. Appendices   
19. CD/ DVD and envelope as shown in Appendix K   
20. Attachment : FYP Meeting Logs (all) 1 set   
 
FORMAT OF REPORT √ Comments 
1. Page Numbering   
2. Font and Type Face   
3. Font Cover   
4. Tables and Figures   
5. Comb Bind   
6. Colour of the Front Cover   
7. Number of words > 5000 (Main content only)   
Checked by 
 
________________________ 
Student’s Signature & Date 
 


--- PAGE 49 ---
 
 48 
Appendix C: Checklist for FYP Final Report Submission 
 
Faculty of Information Science and Technology (FIST) 
Checklist for Final Report Submission 
(To be filled in by Student) 
STUDENT’S DETAILS 
Project Code  FIST 
Name  
ID No  
Title of Thesis  
Supervisor Name  
 
REPORT ARRANGEMENT  √ Comments (if any differences) 
1. Cover of The Final Report   
2. Title Page of the Final Report   
3 Copyright page of I Final Report   
4. Declaration Page of Final report   
5. Acknowledgement   
6. Table of Contents   
7. Abstract   
8. List of Tables   
9. List of Figures   
10. List of Symbols   
11. List of Appendices   
12. Chapter 1: Introduction – objectives, scope   
13. Chapter 2: Literature Review   
14. Chapter 3: Title:   
15. Chapter 4: Title:   
16. Chapter 5: Title:   
17. Chapter 6: Title:   
18. Chapter 7: Title:   
19. Chapter 8: Title:   
20. References – APA style   
21. Appendices   
22. CD/ DVD and envelope as shown in Appendix K   
23. Attachment: FYP Meeting Logs (all) - 1 set   
 
FORMAT OF REPORT √ Comments 
1. Page Numbering   
2. Font and Type Face   
3. Font Cover   
4. Tables and Figures   
5. Spine Format   
6. Comb Bind (For evaluation)   
7. Permanent Bind (After approval)   
8. Colour of the Front Cover   
9. Number of words > 10000 (Main content only)   
Checked by 
 
________________________ 
Student’s Signature & Date 


--- PAGE 50 ---
 
 49 
 
 Appendix D: Layout for the Cover of the Interim/ Final Report/ Hard-Cover 
 
 
    
       
 
 SECURE PROJECT  
 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NURUL NADIA AHMAD 
 
 
 SESSION 2017/2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FACULTY OF INFORMATION SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY 
 
 MULTIMEDIA UNIVERSITY 
 
 APRIL 2018 
 
 
 
 
Title of Final Year Project 
Typeface: Times New Roman 
Font size: 20 
Name of Candidate  
Typeface: Times New Roman 
Font size: 16 
 
Faculty, Name of University and 
Month & Year of the project 
submission date (MUST follow the 
submission date) 
Typeface: Times New Roman 
Font size: 12 
50 mm from the top of the page
  
45 mm from the left margin 
45 mm from the right margin 
Session: MUST follow the 
submission session) 
 
Typeface: Times New Roman 
Font size: 12 
 
50 mm from the bottom of the page 

--- PAGE 51 ---
 
 50 
 
 Appendix E: Layout of Spine of the Final Report (Hard Cover only) 
 
             
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
NURUL NADIA AHMAD SECURE PROJECT  
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMTEMS 
 
WITH KER 
SESSION 
2009/2010 
 
20 mm from the top of the spine 
20 mm from the bottom of the spine 
Title of final year project 
Typeface: Times New Roman 
Font size: 14 
Name of Candidate 
Typeface: Times New Roman 
Font size: 14 
IF REQUESTED BY THE 
SUPERVISOR/FACULTY ONLY 

--- PAGE 52 ---
 
 51 
Appendix F: Layout of Title Page of the Interim/ Final Report   
 
 
 
 
 SECURE PROJECT  
 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 
 
 BY 
 
 
 NURUL NADIA AHMAD 
 
 
 
 SESSION 2018/2019 
 
 
 
 
 THE PROJECT REPORT IS PREPARED FOR 
 
FACULTY OF INFORMATION SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY 
 MULTIMEDIA UNIVERSITY 
 IN PARTIAL FULFILLMENT 
 FOR 
 
 BACHELOR OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
 B.I.T. (HONS) SECURITY TECHNOLOGY 
 
 FACULTY OF INFORMATION SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY 
 
 
 MULTIMEDIA UNIVERSITY 
 
 SEPTEMBER 2018 
 
 
Title of project 
Typeface: Times New Roman 
Font Size: 20 
Name of candidate 
Typeface: Times New Roman 
Font Size: 16 
Degree and Faculty Enrolled 
Typeface: Times New Roman 
Font size: 12 
Name of University 
Typeface: Times New Roman 
Font size: 16 
 
Month & Year of Project 
submission date (MUST follow 
the submission MONTH & 
YEAR) 
Typeface: Times New Roman 
Font size: 12 
50 mm from the top of the page
  
45 mm from the left margin 
45 mm from the right margin 
50 mm from the bottom of the page 

--- PAGE 53 ---
 
 52 
  
Appendix G: Layout of Copyright Page of the Interim/ Final Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© 2018 Universiti Telekom Sdn. Bhd.  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
 
Copyright of this report belongs to Universiti Telekom Sdn. Bhd  as 
qualified by Regulation 7.2 (c) of the Multimedia University 
Intellectual Property and Commercialization policy. No part of this 
publication may be reproduced, stored in or introduced into a retrieval 
system, or transmitted in any form or by any means (electronic, 
mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise), or for any 
purpose, without the express written permission of Universiti Telekom 
Sdn. Bhd.  Due acknowledgement shall always be made of the use of 
any material contained in, or derived from, this report.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Typeface: Times New Roman 
Font size: 12 
To be placed justify of the page 
 
Typeface: Times New Roman 
Font size: 14 
Alignment: Text to be placed Justify of the page 
 
Year of the project submission 
(MUST follow the submission 
year) 

--- PAGE 54 ---
 
 53 
 
Appendix H: Layout of Declaration Page of the Final Report (Soft Cover Interim/ 
Final Report for evaluation) 
 
 
 
 
DECLARATION 
 
I hereby declare that the work have  been done by myself and no portion of the work 
contained in this thesis has been submitted in support of any application for any other 
degree or qualification of this or any other university or institute of learning. 
 
 
____________________ 
Name of candidate  
Faculty of Information Science & Technology 
Multimedia University 
Submission Date: DD: MM: YYYY 
Submission Time: HH : MM 
 
------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------- 
Student’s Receipt. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
I hereby acknowledge the receipt of this report  
 
Supervisor Signature:  
Supervisor Name: 
Supervisor Stamp: 
Date & Time of Receipt: 
 
 
  
Typeface: Times New Roman 
Font size: 12 

--- PAGE 55 ---
 
 54 
 
Appendix I: Layout of Declaration Page of the FYP 2 - FINALISED Report 
 
 
 
 
DECLARATION 
 
I hereby declare that the work have been done by myself and no portion of the work 
contained in this thesis has been submitted in support of any application for any other 
degree or qualification of this or any other university or institute of learning. 
 
 
____________________ 
Name of candidate  
Faculty of Information Science & Technology 
Multimedia University 
Submission Date: DD: MM: YYYY 
Submission Time: HH : MM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Typeface: Times New Roman 
Font size: 12 

--- PAGE 56 ---
 
 55 
 
 
 
Appendix J: Sample of Soft Cover Interim/ Final Report for evaluation 
 
  
IF REQUESTED BY THE SUPERVISOR/FACULTY 
ONLY 

--- PAGE 57 ---
 
 56 
 
 
Appendix K: Sample of Hard Cover Final Report (Front) 
 
Colour: Dark Blue 
  
IF REQUESTED BY THE SUPERVISOR/FACULTY 
ONLY 

--- PAGE 58 ---
 
 57 
 
 
Appendix L: Layout of CD/ DVD envelope 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
The CD/ DVD envelope (White colour) MUST be attached to the center of the last 
page of the report. 
11 cm 
13 cm 
13 cm 
3 cm 
 
{Project Title} 
{Name} 
{Session} 
Faculty of Information Science & Technology 
Multimedia University 
CD/ DVD 
Labels 
IF REQUESTED BY THE SUPERVISOR/FACULTY 
ONLY 